======================================================================
SDSU Mathematics LaTeX Thesis Template
======================================================================

This directory contains the SDSU LaTeX thesis template and supporting
materials.  It is done specifically for the Mathematics department, so
it does not allow all the different SDSU thesis styles, but just
focuses on the needs of the Mathematics department. It should also
work for the Computer Science department and perhaps others that use
the Technical format of the SDSU thesis manual.  Suggestions and
addenda pertinent to other departments are very welcome!

Files:

 (*)-marked files are not necessarily maintained...

 README_First       - This file, getting started
 README_Linux       - instructions for use on Linux
 README_MacOSX      - instruction for Mac_OSX(*)
 README_Windows     - instructions for Windows(*)

 Example/
    Makefile        - UNIX/Linux makefile to make things simple
    abstract.tex    - Long example thesis abstract
    append.tex      - Long example thesis appendix
    body.tex        - Long example thesis body
    glossary.tex    - Example Glossary
    sdsu-thesis.cls - The SDSU-math Thesis LaTeX class file
    siam.bst        - the "original" (1988 version) SIAM bibliographic
                      style file[*], downloaded from
                      http://www.siam.org/journals/auth-info.php 
    siammod.bst     - slightly modified siam.bst [**]
    siamplain.base  - a more recent (2018 version) of the SIAM
                      bib-style.
    thbib.bib       - Long example thesis bibliography
    thesis.tex      - Long example thesis main file
    Figures/        
       cos.eps      - Figures for the example
       mapping.eps  -  "
       plot2.eps    -  "
       somb.eps     -  "
 
    [**] If you have two (or more) consecutive bibliography entries
    	 with the SAME author, the "siam" style will replace the
    	 author name in all but the first entries with a LONG DASH.
    	 We do not want that, so use "\bibliographystyle{siammod}"
    	 instead.  If you need "modern" fields {url, urldate, doi,
    	 doiclass, eprint, eprintclass, archive, archiveprefix} you
    	 can stitch something together using siammod.bst and
    	 siamplain.bst (good luck!)

 Resources/
    Dissertation_and_Thesis_Manual-2010-May-14.pdf 
                    - Downloaded from Montezuma Publishing
    Including-eps-graphics-in-pdfLaTeX.pdf
                    - Downloaded 2010-12-16 from
                      http://www.2pi.info/latex/Includingeps.html
    LaTeX_Thesis_Format_Approval_[OFFICIAL].docx
    LaTeX_Thesis_Format_Details_[UNOFFICIAL].docx
    LaTeX_Thesis_Format_Details_[UNOFFICIAL].pdf
                    - Thesis Review Material/Information for
                      departments / programs that have a LaTeX
                      reviewer.
    New_Review_Checklist_Downloaded-2019-July-23.pdf
                    - Downloaded from Montezuma Publishing
    Review-Checklist_Downloaded-2010-Sep-09.pdf             [OUTDATED]
                    - Downloaded from Montezuma Publishing
    SDSU_Formatting_Guidelines-Downloaded-2019-July-23.pdf
                    - Downloaded from Montezuma Publishing
    The-Subfigure-Package.pdf
                    - Instructions for the "subfigure" package;
    		      downloaded from  CTAN. 

All the files here are really text files and you normally edit them
with a standard text editor such as the GNOME or KDE text editor
(gedit or kedit) if on a modern Linux system, emacs or vi on
UNIX/Linux or Notepad on Windows.  You really only need to edit *.tex
and thbib.bib files.  There are also some graphical editors for LaTeX.
See a few paragraphs below.


======================================================================
Overview
======================================================================

You will need LaTeX (LaTeX2e in particular, not LaTeX 2.09) installed
and working of course.  I would recommend using a Linux system such as
Fedora, Ubuntu, openSUSE, Debian, Mandriva, ... since just about any
Linux distribution comes with LaTeX and postscript viewer (gv or ggv)
installed as standard.  You should also be able to use rohan or
sciences as those computers also have everything you need installed.
See the README files each operating system for more information.

You should read and edit the thesis.tex (and the files included from
that file) document which is a template for a thesis.  It has many
comments (lines starting with '%') which explain how things are set
up.

It is probably safest to make a directory, say MyThesis, in which to
put your own work.  That way if you download the sdsu thesis template
a second time, you won't overwrite your thesis.  You may also want to
put the various chapters in a file/files called
body.tex/chapter001.tex-chapter999.tex so that you won't have to look
at all the clutter in thesis.tex while you write.  Look at the Example
subdirectory for an example of this.


======================================================================
Library Abstract          [This does not apply as of January 24, 2013]
======================================================================

The manual also requires a library abstract to be printed out.  The
library abstract will be printed out as the last page of your thesis
as long as you used the `libraryabstract' environment.  See the
example for more information.


======================================================================
Bibliography
======================================================================

There are two main approaches to making a bibliography.  We have
elected to use BibTeX in the examples.  With BibTeX you make a
separate file (we called it thbib.bib) which contains a bibliographic
database which is included into the thesis with the line

   \bibliography{thbib}

The style of bibliography  is defined by 

   \bibliographystyle{siammod}

You may change the bibliographic style at any time: just rerun bibtex
and latex twice after doing so for the change to take effect.  BibTeX
produces a file thesis.bbl which contains the TeX code for the
bibliography, as well as a log file thesis.blg.  If you encounter a
problem with the bibliography that BibTeX produces, you can always
edit thesis.bbl, run latex once more and print.

Entries in the bibliographic databases look like the following.

@article{Abraham,
  author="Abraham, T.",
  title="Mathematical study of $\gamma$-rings in a {H}ilbert space",
  journal="J. Math. Anal. Appl.",
  volume="19",
  pages="125-128",
  year="1984"
}

In the first line, Abraham is "tag" that you create for citing.  When
you write \ref{Abraham} in the thesis body, LaTeX will automatically
insert the correct citation, in the correct format (defined by the
bibliography style).  The BibTeX database entries may be obtained at
MathSciNet, http://www.ams.org/mathscinet/search Search for your
author title or whatever.  In the box at the upper left (which usually
says Reviews (HTML)) choose Citations (BibTeX).


======================================================================
Further Information
======================================================================

You will probably need some good LaTeX reference.  LaTeX normally
installs a lot of help files which are helpful and there are plenty of
resources available on the web.  For more information on the SDSU
class read the thesis.tex file.  And for even more information look in
the long-example subdirectory.

The book `LaTeX, A Document Preparation System' by Leslie Lamport is a
good reference for LaTeX2e.  The book `The LaTeX Companion' is also
has lots of information, but it really requires that you also have
Leslie's book or if you already know quite a bit of latex.  It can
help out if you need to do something not quite common.

You can find more information than you could ever want at
https://en.wikibooks.org/wiki/LaTeX including a 748-page free pdf-book
(https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/2/2d/LaTeX.pdf) 


======================================================================
RECENT History --- (Maintainer, please maintain this!!!)
(Note filenames and folders are in square brackets) 

* Tue Jul 23 21:01:07 PDT 2019 -- Peter Blomgren <blomgren@sdsu.edu>
  - Maintenance release
  - Many small changes; too many to remember since I am suffering from
    the stages of CRS (Can't Remember S***).
  - NOTE, the Montezuma Policies and Procedures were updated
    (streamlined) on April 1, 2015.  Some of the more draconian rules
    were abolished.
    (http://www.montezumapublishing.com/thesis1/Formatting.aspx) 

* Mon Jul  8 10:41:30 PDT 2013 -- Peter Blomgren
  - ADDED support for Glossaries [sdsu-thesis.cls, thesis.tex,
    glossaries.tex, Makefile]: if you don't need this comment out /
    delete the appropriate lines in [thesis.tex], and the
    "makeglossaries" line in [Makefile]
  - ADDED PS2PDF_OPTS in the Makefile to force all fonts to be
    embedded in the generated PDF file.  This is now a REQUIREMENT for
    publishing.  If you are using a different publishing system than
    ps2pdf (gs), then you may have to find the correct setting to
    embed the fonts; ask your favorite uncle -- "Uncle Google."

* Thu Jan 31 09:03:11 PST 2013 -- Peter Blomgren
  - ADDED [LaTeX_Thesis_Format_Approval_[OFFICIAL].docx] in the
    Resources folder.
  - ADDED [LaTeX_Thesis_Format_Details_[UNOFFICIAL].docx] in the
    Resources folder.
  - ADDED [LaTeX_Thesis_Format_Details_[UNOFFICIAL].pdf] in the
    Resources folder.
  - [body.tex] Changed "caption hints" to include instructions for
    FULL CITATIONs.
  - [thesis.tex] "Since the library went electronic, they no longer
    require an extra abstract to be inserted at the end of the
    thesis."
  - [thesis.tex] Added note about left-justification for short
    captions.

* Fri Feb 23 14:11:32 PST 2012 -- Peter Blomgren
  - Added [The-Subfigure-Package.pdf] in the Resources folder.
  - (EXPERIMENTAL) added \usepackage{amsthm} to [thesis.tex], and
    added a definition of \newtheoremstyle{dtm} to trim space above
    and below the theorem-like environments; commenting out
    \theoremstyle{dtm} should bring back the old behavior (which is no
    longer passing thesis review, even though "the review process
    hasn't changed."  Yeah, right --- just look at the changelog since
    September 30, 2010.
  - Updated the way the "degree" is handled on the ABSTRACT pages; the
    previous update broke these.  The new version now puts all the
    information from the degreeONE,TWO,THREE fields on the abstract
    pages; it is unclear whether this is correct in the
    "Concentration" case. The DTM is not clear. [sdsu-thesis.cls]

* Mon Feb 13 17:31:23 PST 2012 -- Peter Blomgren
  - Changed the way [sdsu-thesis.cls] deals with optional arguments to
    sectioning commands.  In the (common) one-argument case, the
    argument goes into the TOC (if not too deep in the sectioning
    structure) and the document; in the (rare) two-argument case, the
    first argument goes into the TOC, and the SECOND into the
    document.  Previous versions of [sdsu-thesis.cls] ignored the
    second argument.  Main use: setting math formulas (in sectioning)
    in BOLD TYPE inside the document, and in NON-BOLD TYPE in the TOC.
  - Changed the way the "degree" is handled in the style file to make
    it more obvious how to handle various degrees; in particular
    degrees with "Concentrations" in some particular
    area. [sdsu-thesis.cls, thesis.tex]
  - Changed the way technical reports are handled in the
    bibliography. [siammod.bst]
  - [thesis.tex] is now usepackage'ing (how's that for a verb?!) the
    caption package, with the correct parameters, at an early stage in
    the process.  Caption labels should now be bold followed by a
    period, with bold caption text in all (hopefully) cases.

* Sat Feb 4 16:30:32 PST 2012 -- Peter Blomgren
  - Added note on the subfig package (for those who refuse to use the
    subfigure package), section "Potential Pitfalls" [body.tex]
  - Added [siammod.bst] to the distribution; see comment marked [**]
    in [README_First]
  - Corrected spelling of "Acknowledgments."
  - Added example of how to reference a patent.

* Thu Dec 16 13:48:44 PDT 2010 -- Peter Blomgren
  - Updated style [sdsu-thesis.cls] to conform to:
    + [sub[sub[sub]]]sections should not be numbered in the appendices
    + The appendix "splash pages" need to be horizontally and
      VERTICALLY centered; previous versions left a *little* more
      space at the  bottom of the page, which is visually more
      pleasing, but not strictly conforming to the specifications.
    + Added [Including-eps-graphics-in-pdfLaTeX.pdf] which contains
      information on how to deal with eps graphics in situations (like
      TeXShop on the Mac) where the LaTeX "compiler" is based on
      pdfLaTeX (which cannot directly handle eps graphics).

* Thu Sep 30 11:37:51 PDT 2010 -- Peter Blomgren
  - Corrected template: Table caption ("Table Titles") -- Should be in
    HEADLINE STYLE, i.e. All Majors Words Capitalized, and there is NO
    period at the end of the caption.  [Previously the template
    incorrectly showed ALL CAPS for table captions.]
  - Various minor non-style related clean-up in [Example].
  - THE OUTPUT FROM THIS VERSION WAS REVIEWED AND DEEMED "OK" BY THE
    MONTEZUMA THESIS REVIEWER.

* Thu Sep 23 13:50:54 PDT 2010 -- Peter Blomgren
  - Moved [Dissertation_and_Thesis_Manual-2010-May-14.pdf] and
    [Review-Checklist_Downloaded-2010-Sep-09.pdf] to a new subfolder
    [Resources]
  - Added [siam.bst] the SIAM bibliographic style file in [Example].

* Thu Sep 17 11:28:42 PDT 2010 -- Peter Blomgren
  - Consolidated the "short" and "long" examples into "Example."
  - Added formatting information for adding supplementary
    (non-paginated) material to the table of contents. [thesis.tex]
  - Introduced new typos (for sure).
  - DELETED the file [README_Problems], that information is incorporated
    in the example [body.tex].
  - The files [README_Mac_OSX], [README_Unix_Linux], and
    [README_Windows] all need updating / consolidating...
  - Added info regarding sorting "non-authored" bib-entries using the
    "key" field in [thbib.bib].
  - All-capitalized \chapter{INTRODUCTION} in [body.tex].
  - Added [Dissertation_and_Thesis_Manual-2010-May-14.pdf]
  - Added [Review-Checklist_Downloaded-2010-Sep-09.pdf]

* Aug 2010 -- Peter Blomgren
  - Corrected template to \submitdate{term year}
  - Added note: Student name: has to match university record.
  - Corrected template - copyright page: "Copyright symbol year"
  - Corrected template: Chapter titles should be ALL CAPS
  - Added note: Figures caption: Only the first word is capitalized
    and there is a period at the end.  Also, there should be no space
    between the bottom of the figure and the caption.
  - Template conforms to: Table captions ON TOP of table; figure
    captions BELOW figure


MIDDLE History:

* Missing


OLD History:

Changes in 2.0.1 - Jiri Lebl
  - Dots in table of contents more closely spaced
  - Killed the 12pt space after the (sub^n)section title
  - Kill \parsep in the bibliography which was adding extra space between
    entries
  - Changed indentation in the table of contents
  - Change \inofand to \switchofto
  - Wrap long lines in the table of contents 1in instead of 0.7in from the
    right side
  - Add copyright symbol to copyright pages in the examples

Changes in 2.0 - Jiri Lebl
  - Remove all old cruft and pretty much rewrite the thing, note that it's
    not compatible with the 1.0 version of the class and you will need to
    change your files a little.  See the examples.  It's a lot more like
    the `report' class right now.
  - The library-abstract.tex is now gone as it's printed as part of your
    thesis on the last page.  Use the `libraryabstract' environment.

Changes in v1.0.2 - Jiri Lebl
  - Fixes from M E OS
  - Chapter and section headers are at most 4.5in wide
  - Subsection is now implemented like section and is at most 3.5in wide
  - ``fixed'' the table of contents auto header code and add one more baseline
    skip just for being careful, also separate out the lot and lof tables
    in this to make it work

Changes in v1.0.1 - Jiri Lebl
  - Fix top margin
  - Fix centering of titles
  - Killed the extra indentation in acknowledgment
  - Made it possible to add fourth and fifth committee members


